Ben's notes for gitHub papertrail:

	20/8/2020
	
Updated Plans/Progress sections with references:

The Story:

Passionate about communication and considering a career change at the time, GS Technologies member Ben Matthews undertook an introductory Australian Sign Language (Auslan) course through Western Australian organisation Access Plus WA Deaf in mid 2019 (Auslan Sign Language Courses & Classes in Perth | Access Plus WA Deaf, 2020). A challenge was identified while learning the language. It is relatively easy to learn to finger spell the alphabet (and from there, any other word), and there are many available educational resources to teach the gestures for each letter (Starter, 2020), (Can:Do Classroom, 2016). However, while learning to fingerspell is easy to practice without assistance from others due to the availability of appropriate resources, interpreting the fast-paced fingerspelling from a fluent signer is very difficult to practice independently of others.  The educational resources that are currently available for bettering one’s ability to interpret fingerspelling are sorely limited and somewhat basic when compared to modern app technologies, especially in terms of use of graphics and animation (Signbank, 2020), (Jansen, 2020).

GS Technologies proposes that a new resource could be developed to greatly benefit the Australian and New Zealand deaf communities, aspiring Auslan interpreters, and anyone who has an interest in learning Auslan (Signbank, 2020).  GS Technologies believe that a new educational app could quickly surpass the current competition in terms of educational effectiveness, usability and marketability, and suggests that it could assist Auslan students by allowing them to practice fingerspelling interpretation independently and flexibly.

Current Progress: 

Short, mid-term and to a lesser extent, long term goals have been defined by the GS Technologies team for the development of the JumpIntoAuslan app.  Desired functionality has been listed and detailed in the Aims and Tools and Technologies sections (above), which outlines mid-term and longer term aims.  In brevity, the mid-term goal is the creation and release of a fully functioning app that is both accessible as a standalone app to be downloaded onto devices, or via web browser. The app would serve its purposes as described in the overview, and would be delivered as per a marketing and release plan for the app. While marketing ideas have been considered, a detailed marketing and release plan is yet to be produced (Heinig, 2018). 

The long-term goal would be to include functionality that is not essential for providing the intended apps purpose to users, but would be desirable, interesting or entertaining for the user, along with any updates required to address unexpected issues with the product.  Pending a successful outcome from the project, the app could be further developed to not only provide fingerspelling demonstrations to the user, but eventually the complete range of Auslan gestures.

The short term vision for the product is to prepare an interactive GUI mockup that will give the viewer a visual and interactive understanding of what to expect from the app by its release. This will serve as a means to communicate the intentions of GS Technologies for the app to future collaborators, and if required, potential investors, funding bodies, or promotional materials used to encourage pre-orders of the app (which could help to fund the development of the app). The decision to prepare a GUI wireframe as a short term goal was made in recognition of time constraints and a limited experience in app development expressed by all members of the GS Technologies team.  While the completion of the product in its entirety seemed unattainable within the short term timeframe (six weeks), the creation of a representation of the intended final product as a GUI wireframe seemed reasonable, and would potentially serve the development of the product for reasons mentioned above.

GS Technologies is currently in the process of designing the product, aesthetic and branding of the app, while also preparing reports detailing the team’s intentions, development and release plans for the product. The team is currently wireframing the app, starting with the creation of a GUI to infer the eventual user experience.  This will serve as a progress benchmark for collaboration with future teams, potentially for funding applications or investment pitches, or depending on the marketing strategy, promotional material used to encourage pre-orders of the app (which would also help fund the development of the app). 


Roles
The process of assigning tasks to team members for the development of this project was organic in nature.  An online meeting via Zoom was held to discuss the needs of the project.  
Clearly identified roles were loosely prescribed at that time, but without follow up affirmation or clear minute-taking during the meeting, clarity of these assignments became hazed. This did not impede progress in any significant way, as GS Technologies members typically take initiative and communicate well.  Team members were able to check in with each other regularly to see what else needed to be achieved for the project, and would take it upon themselves to do so.  A clear exception to this process is the very clearly defined UI/UX designer role, taken by Andrew Moroney who has diligently prepared the app interface mockup, and the role of marketing director which was taken by Ben Matthews who has prepared a presentation based upon the information of this report.  Throughout the project, these roles were taken on by the remaining GS Technologies members as the project required, and were assigned or taken on based on skill sets, experience and/or the interests of each member.

Tech Researcher
Administration Assistant 
Marketing and Media Director
Web Developer
Project Manager

Scope and Limits
The scope of the JumpIntoAuslan project was deeply considered. The GS Technologies team followed the advice of Business and Self Help author Stephen Covey by ‘beginning with the end in mind’ (Covey, 1989). Initially, an ‘all-bells-and-whistles’ final product was conceptualised - An app that could assist people with not only fingerspelling, but with learning the entire language of Auslan, that came with detailed marketing and delivery strategies, ethical data collection to further benefit marketing campaigns, and a range of functionality that intended to be entertaining and desirable to the user, or to Auslan teachers.  In recognition of the group’s skill limitations and time constraints, humbler milestones were defined.  Our current goal is to provide a business proposal that includes:

A clear outline of the essential functionality of the app that is required in order to deliver the intended service (assisting users with fingerspelling interpretation), with considerations of marketing and release strategies, and the target market for the app.

A GUI prototype to give interested parties an intuitive insight into the intended style, feel and functionality of the app

A rough estimated timeline for developing the project beyond the prototype and proposal stage, listing the additional desirable functionality to be updated with future patches after release

An estimated budget and list of resources required to complete the project.

References:

Access Plus WA Deaf. 2020. Auslan Sign Language Courses & Classes In Perth | Access Plus WA Deaf. [online] Available at: <https://accessplus.org.au/auslan-classes/> [Accessed 20 August 2020].

Starter, T., 2020. AU Search Avatar Image 1:06 0:37 / 3:24 Learn Auslan: Fingerspelling The Alphabet. [online] Youtube. Available at: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AFP4a3foXLA> [Accessed 20 August 2020].

Can:Do Classroom, 2016. Fingerspelling A-Z Auslan. [online] Youtube. Available at: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rV1KfQlRAds> [Accessed 20 August 2020].

Auslan.org.au. 2020. Signbank. [online] Available at: <http://www.auslan.org.au/spell/practice.html> [Accessed 20 August 2020].

Jansen, M., 2020. The Best Android Games Currently Available (August 2020) | Digital Trends. [online] Digital Trends. Available at: <https://www.digitaltrends.com/mobile/best-android-games/> [Accessed 20 August 2020].

Auslan.org.au. 2020. Signbank. [online] Available at: <http://www.auslan.org.au/spell/practice.html> [Accessed 20 August 2020].

Heinig, I., 2018. 10 Steps To A Winning Pre-Launch App Marketing Strategy | The Manifest. [online] Themanifest.com. Available at: <https://themanifest.com/mobile-apps/10-steps-winning-pre-launch-app-marketing-strategy> [Accessed 20 August 2020].

Covey, S., 1989. The Seven Habits Of Highly Effective People. New York: Simon & Schuster.


	Update 18/8/2020

A5 Script:

Hi, I’m Ben from GS Technologies (etc).

We’ve been hard at work creating a new app to assist with a specific skill used when learning Australian Sign Language, or ‘Auslan’.

Auslan incorporates a whole language of gestures, and the part of the skillset that GS Technologies has been looking at specifically, is fingerspelling. 

Fingerspelling is literally the hand gestures for each letter of the English alphabet. While much of Auslan has moved away from fingerspelling, replacing strings of individual letters with other gestures to communicate words or phrases, these gestures are often interspersed with fingerspelling for common abbreviations, niche vernacular, or specifics like names of people or companies.

Now, we’re not interested in teaching people to fingerspell. There are plenty of resources currently available that will teach you how to sign the alphabet.  But when it comes to being able to practice interpreting Auslan fingerspelling, the online resources are either limited, or leave a lot to be desired.  For example, there are limited ranges of video resources online. These are initially helpful, but once you’ve seen them, it becomes very easy to stop ‘interpreting’, and simply remember what the person in the video was spelling out from the last time you watched it.   Video resources quickly become redundant. 

What’s more, is that there simply aren’t enough of these video resources available for them to be an effective means of independently practicing fingerspelling interpretation.

But, we have a solution.


This is JumpIntoAuslan, a new browser based and device app that GS Technologies is currently wireframing.  JumpIntoAuslan will use a 3d model and procedurally generated animation of any fingerspelling gesture to any other fingerspelling gesture, and will fingerspell words and phrases from text documents that are either provided by the app, or uploaded by the user.

By creating a fluid, dynamic animation that renders live as the app literally interprets text files into Auslan, there is no need to constantly release new videos in an attempt to deliver Auslan practice content. The content is generated automatically by the app as it reads and interprets text files.

The app will have playback controls and difficulty settings for the user.  If the user wishes to slow the animation down, speed it up, or pause it, they will be able to do so with a few simple screen presses.  



After the user has viewed a fingerspelled word or phrase, they will be able to input text to the app to verify their answers.  Users will be able to keep track of their accuracy scores and common mistakes. If a user is often misinterpreting a particular sign, the app can offer that feedback to them.

Img: hard/weird jargon phrase? Give an ‘easy’, ‘medium’, ‘hard’? 

Difficulty settings will be defined by the speed of the animation, the length of the words or phrases, the commonality of the words or phrases used, and the amount of times the user can view the animation before inputting their answer to check their accuracy

For example, an easy difficulty might have the animation spell through a single, common, short word slowly, pausing on each letter for a moment before moving to the next, and the user will be able to rewatch the animation as many times as they’d like before inputting their interpretation of it.  A hard difficulty might quickly spell out a longer phrase from a technical journal, or from a Shakespearean play or something else that uses uncommon words or jargon, and the user would have only one or two rewatches of the animation before they must attempt to interpret it.

We’re hoping that this app will capture the interest of a range of parties including
	-Individuals who are interested in developing their Auslan skillset,
	-Deaf and hard of hearing communities and institutions
	-The National Disability Insurance Scheme
	-Deaf friendly schools and educational institutions

At launch we expect to release a fully functioning app that allows users to log in as a guest, or sign in using their social media accounts. Their progress and accuracy score ratings will be saved for each user’s profile so that they can jump right back to where they left off every time they log back in. Users with accounts will also be able to upload their own text files for animated interpretation.  This will also allow teachers to provide tailored text to be interpreted for classwork or for fingerspelling exams.

For more information to do with development progress, timeframe, budget and release plans for the JumpIntoAuslan app, please download our business report.

We are GS Technologies, thank you for watching!


	update 10/8/2020

Plans and Progress:

The Story:

Passionate about communication and considering a career change at the time, GS Technologies member Ben Matthews undertook an introductory Australian Sign Language (Auslan) course through Western Australian organisation Access Plus WA Deaf in mid 2019 .<ref: https://accessplus.org.au/auslan-classes/> A challenge was identified while learning the language. It is relatively easy to learn to finger spell the alphabet (and from there, any other word), and there are many available educational resources to teach the gestures for each letter. <ref: auslan resources x2 or 3> However, while learning to fingerspell is easy to practice independently of another person, interpreting the fast-paced fingerspelling from a fluent signer is very difficult to practice without assistance.  The educational resources that are currently available for bettering one’s ability to interpret fingerspelling are sorely limited and somewhat basic when compared to modern app technologies. <ref: current competition><ref: what apps can now do>

Matthews believes that a new resource could be developed to greatly benefit the Australian and New Zealand deaf communities, aspiring Auslan interpreters, and anyone who has an interest in learning Auslan.<ref: Auslan and NZ Sign language is similar>  GS Technologies saw the opportunity to develop a new educational app that could quickly surpass the current competition in terms of educational effectiveness, usability and marketability, that could assist inspired Auslan students by allowing them to practice fingerspelling interpretation independently.

Where we are at in the life cycle of this app:

Short, mid-term and to a lesser extent, long term goals have been defined by the GS Technologies team for the development of the JumpIntoAuslan app.  Desired functionality has been listed and detailed <in ‘that’ section>, which outlines mid-term and longer term aims.  In brevity, the mid-term goal is the creation and release of a fully functioning app that is both accessible as a standalone app to be downloaded onto devices, or via web browser. The app would serve its purposes as described in <’that’ section’>, and would be delivered as per the marketing and release plan (yet to be created) for the app. <ref: releasing an app - marketing plan>

The long-term goal would be to include functionality that is not essential for providing the intended apps purpose to users, but would be desirable, interesting or entertaining for the user, along with any updates required to address unexpected issues with the product.  Pending a successful outcome from the project, the app could be further developed to not only provide fingerspelling demonstrations to the user, but eventually the complete range of Auslan gestures.

The short term vision for the product is to prepare an interactive GUI mockup that will give the viewer a visual and interactive understanding of what to expect from the app by its release. This will serve as a means to communicate the intentions of GS Technologies for the app to future collaborators, and if required, potential investors, funding bodies, or promotional materials used to encourage pre-orders of the app (which could help to fund the development of the app). The decision to prepare a GUI wireframe as a short term goal was made in recognition of time constraints and a limited experience in app development expressed by all members of the GS Technologies team.  While the completion of the product in its entirety seemed unattainable within the short term timeframe (six weeks), the creation of a representation of the intended final product as a GUI wireframe seemed reasonable, and would potentially serve the development of the product for reasons mentioned above.

GS Technologies is currently in the process of designing the product, aesthetic and branding of the app, while also preparing reports detailing the team’s intentions, development and release plans for the product.

We are in the process of designing the product, the aesthetic and the branding of the app.  We are currently wireframing the app, starting with the creation of a GUI to infer the eventual user experience.  This will serve as a progress benchmark for collaboration with future teams, potentially for funding applications or investment pitches, or depending on the marketing strategy, promotional material used to encourage pre-orders of the app (which would also help fund the development of the app).

Alongside the development of the app wireframe, GS Technologies is concurrently preparing reports on the development progress of the product and the marketing and release plan? .

--

Functionality for the app:


Uploading/storing or accessing (via the cloud) text files

Reading from a text file

Creating dynamic 3d animations between preset hand/arm gestures/postures (representing letters of the alphabet) to fingerspell words or phrases based on the text read in a file.

Animation Speed settings (speed up / slow down)

Categorisation of difficulty of words/phrases. The app has or accesses a language analysis tool which determines the commonality of words, the difficulty of their spelling, and their length.  This could also include categories like ‘slang’ phrases, jargon or other styles of writing (eg Shakespearian).

Difficulty Slider - this changes the speed of the fingerspelling animation, reduces the number of times you can playback the same word or phrase before having to check the answer, and may include increasingly complex or long words/phrases to interpret.

Cloud-Based Profile Info (private) that stores information of your preferences (like difficulty), how much time spent on fingerspelling, accuracy ratings over a time period (and progress through difficulty levels).

Login integration with social media (Google/Facebook/etc)

Voice recognition integration: Say a word into it, the app analyses the sound, converts it to text, and from there ‘reads’ the text as per its usual process, and dynamically creates the fingerspelling animation for the words/phrase.


---

Aim of our project:

The end goal:

What we propose for the timeframe of this project:
-Pre-Alpha version of the app including
-3D Model wireframe, with a few fingerspelled gestures 
-GUI for the app

	Plans and Progress:

GS Tech member Ben Matthews took up basic AUSLAN lessons in 2019. Upon wishing to develop his skills beyond the allotted class times, he sought to find relevant educational tools, only to find that there were none.

Since then, a tool has been developed for this task, but it is bad for <these reasons>

GS Technologies saw an opportunity to develop this educational tool beyond the current competition, to benefit not only the hard of hearing and deaf communities in AUS/NZ, but also to assist any who are interested in learning the language.

Dead Ends Followed include…

Decisions made and changes made include…

Roles include:
These roles were assigned based on skill sets, experience, and interest of each member:

Admin Assistant
Researcher
Web Developer
UI/UX Designer
3D Modeller

	Scope and Limits:

What we propose for the timeframe of this project:
-Pre-Alpha version of the app including
-3D Model wireframe, with a few fingerspelled gestures 
-GUI for the app


	Tools and Technologies
Which software/licenses/hardware are needed?
3d Modelling software
Adobe XD
InVision

Any prior experience from group members with these?


	Testing
How can we test our project? Putting it onto different devices/phones? Putting it in a website?

What defines ‘success’ for our project (or this portion of it)? This would surely be ‘achieving our scoped/limited aim’

Timeframe
Within the first six weeks, we would like to have:
 -Pre-Alpha version of the app including
-3D Model wireframe, with a few fingerspelled gestures 
-GUI for the app

Within the remaining timeframe of the project (an additional 10 weeks), we would like to have a completed app, with demo and promo materials available to offer to potential clients (educational bodies).


